# ars225_final

https://jadesaquarium.com/

Overview
I made a website of AI generated images of fish in the style of a bestiary. These pictures are generated based on real pictures I took using the Stable Diffusion model we used in class. These images will be hosted on the website. Generated poetry based on the images are also attached. It will be an interactive piece in that regard.

Process
I shot 13 GB (10 GB ARW + 3 GB JPEG) of 4000x6000 photos of various sea animals in the Seattle and Long Island Aquariums. I then downscaled all the JPEGS to 267x400 to reduce the training time it would take to train these images on the Stable Diffusion fine tuning model we used in class. At the end of processing my dataset, I had about 7 MB of pictures of 10 different species that I would train the model on. I plugged these images into the code and fine tuned the model so it would generate a variety of more and less realistic images. For the poetry, I fed these images into GPT 4.0 and asked it to write a poem based on them. The website is made using Wordpress.

Conceptual Map
Conceptual Reflection
My inspiration for Jade’s Aquarium mostly came from Sophia Crespo and her work This Jellyfish Does Not Exist. I was inspired by Crespo’s concept of generating extremely lifelike jellyfish to question what we truly consider as real pictures. After viewing Crespo’s work, I thought back to my visit to the Seattle Aquarium and all the pictures I took, and I decided to create a larger dataset by also going to the Long Island Aquarium and taking pictures of every species there. I wanted to do something like Crespo but with more species.

Jade’s Aquarium pretends to be a website showing wildlife photography of exotic sea life, a website containing photos of animals never before seen. These photos of animals are actually generated by Artificial Intelligence, a Stable Diffusion model trained on images that I took of aquarium animals. The generated sea life is uncanny, provoking a dreamlike visage and bordering on what we recognize as real. The purpose of Jade’s Aquarium is to bring into question how our own human cognition perceives reality and whether our ocular processes are a good judge of what’s ‘real’ or ‘authentic’.

I suppose my question is in the style of the Ship of Theseus. Whether you take away all the real components of an image, and replace it with fake ones, whether that is still the same animal that is pictured. I ask, what takes priority to what we perceive as real. It questions the viewer in what we perceive as the essence of 'real' imagery given that the image of real creatures can be mimicked by fake ones. But yet, these fake creatures are based on the likeness of real creatures.

Art References
Sophia Crespo is an artist interested in biology-inspired technologies. Her work is about AI image formation and how its related to how humans cognitively recognize the world. Her projects that are my particular inspiration for this are Critically Extant, which shows generated pictures of endangered species with little media presence, and This Jellyfish Does Not Exist which shows generated pictures of jellyfish and questions what we recognize as the ‘essence’ of a jellyfish.

My Boyfriend Came Back From the War is a hypertext net art narrative that tells a story through clicking on images and texts. I plan on incorporating a similar structure in my website.

A Jelly-Fish is a poem about the mysterious beauty of jellyfish. My texts on my website will be inspired or generated from poems about sea life such as these.
